Data Structures definition: It is a concept in which how data is stored effeciently is deemed. It also tells about which data is stored in which data structure and what is the relationship between the data members in that particular data structure.Also, a data structure must be able to give an index number to every element inside it, irrespective of the data element. It is basically a data container. 
Algorithms definition: It is a procedure or a set of steps required to accomplish a task it is designed to perform. For it to accomplish it's task, it must be precise, simple and unambiguous.
How data structures and algorithms are related: Data structures structure the data that the algorithms take as an input, process and give out as output.
Primitive Types:  If the computer is not told what kind of data it is working on, it may result in error even after a good algorithm is implemented. Therfore, type of data is to be specified and is a must. Such types of data are called primitive data types. They are also called atomic data types since they can't be broken into any smaller data type. There are four types of primitive data type:- Boolean, Character, Integer, Floating point numbers.
1) Boolean: The ON/OFF type, have values either 1 or 0, either true or false. In quantum computing, the qubits may have values neither 0 nor 1, but superimposed between them, having both states simultaenously.
2) Character: Used to represent boolean characters into natural language for easy understanding. Characters are used to make strings but these strings have different encodings as per the system used.
3) Integer: Since computer is all about the numbers, the numbers are represented by integers. These integers are different from mathematical integers as they can be infinite, but due to processor architecture and memory complications, it is not possible for integers to have infinite value range.
4) Floating-point number: Integers with fractional part like 6.7,8.9 etc. They are called floating point numbers because the decimal can be floated/moved to any location to represent the number we are displaying. Two types of floating point numbers:- Single-precision and Double-precision numbers. Usually, Single-precision numbers are called 'floats'(32-bit) and double-precision numbers are called 'doubles'(64-bit). There is another floating-point numbers called 'decimals'(128-bit).
Functions: A routine or a procedure. Functions take some input, do some processing on it and return the desired output.
Functions, Methods, Procedures and Subroutines: Functions are a block of code which can be reused multiple times in a code. When this function is implemented inside of a class, it becomes a method. Some programming languages call procedures or subroutines, some programming languages may also call procedures that functions that do not return any value. All in all, all the terms are similar to each other.
Recursion: A program calling itself untill a specific condition is met.
Iteration: A block of code which is repeated a specified time until the condition is met.
Both recursion and iteration can be used in algorithms, it is in the hands of the developer.
